###########################
Release History
###########################

Release Notes
-------------


* Release note of SALMON ver. 2:

  https://github.com/SALMON-TDDFT/SALMON2/releases

* Release note of SALMON ver. 0 and 1:

  https://github.com/SALMON-TDDFT/SALMON/releases


Details of Minor Changes
------------------------

Followings are history of fixed bugs and changes of models/inputs/outputs after releasing v.2.0.0. (not complete list currently)

Fixed bugs
==========

(Fixed in v.2.2.0)

* For the incident pulse for isolated systems (``yn_periodic=’n’``), the circular polarization was not defined and the CEP for Acos2 was wrong.
* For spin-unpolarized systems (``spin=‘unpolarized’``), the initial value of the occupation rate was wrong when the electron number (nelec) is odd.
* When ``unit_system=‘A_eV_fs’`` is specified, ``temperature`` was mistakenly defined in the atomic unit.
* For isolated systems (``yn_periodic=’n’``), the multipole expansion for the boundary conditions of the Hartree potential (Poisson equation) was wrong. 
* For periodic systems (``yn_periodic=’y’``), ``al_vec[123]`` for orthogonal cells yielded unintended error. 
* For spin-noncollinear systems (``spin=‘noncollinear’``), the band-decomposition of the spin magnetization in ***_mag.data files was wrong.

(Fixed in v.2.1.0)

* Non-local term of the transition moment printed by the option of "yn_out_tm=y" has been fixed (just printing issue).
* Parallelization for orbitals for calculation of transition moment by "yn_out_tm=y" has been suported
* Bug of the segmentation fault occurred by "yn_ffte=y" with parallelization for orbitals using isolated system has been fixed.
* Reading of CIF file format for symmetry option has been improved. 
* Combination of non-uniform user-defined k-points and symmetry option has been supported.


(Fixed in v.2.0.2)

* Small noise on the total energy in TDDFT calculation (that is seen with weak pulse around e.g. I=1d9 W/cm2) has been removed.
* The printed absolute values of electron density in cube format has been fixed.. 
* Printing of the external field in TDDFT calculation of the isolated system has a bug in v.2.0.0 and v.2.0.1. It has been fixed in v.2.0.2.
* The file reading option of the external electric field in TDDFT calculation ("file_input1" in &emfield) has been fixed.
* Invalid occupation number printed in SYSNAME_ovlp.data file for projection option with non-uniform k-points has been fixed.

(Fixed in v.2.0.0)

* The imaginary part of wavefunction was not printed in cube format until v.1.2.1

(Fixed in v.?.?.?)

* Abnormal calculation that sometimes happens if zero value is included in the atomic coordinate in the input with "A_eV_fs" has been fiexd. 


Changes of models/inputs/outputs
================================

(v.2.2.0)

* New theory options for SBE and Maxwell-SBE are added.

  * theory = 'sbe'
  * theory = 'maxwell_sbe'
  
* Input keywords for the Poisson equation solver are added.

  * method_poisson
  * yn_fftw
  
* New TDDFT analysis options are added. 

  * yn_fix_func
  * projection_option=‘td’
  * threshold_projection
  * yn_out_intraband_current
  * yn_out_current_decomposed, out_current_decomposed_step
  * yn_out_micro_je, out_micro_je_step
  

(v.2.1.0)

* Input variables for Spin-orbit coupling are added

  * "yn_spinorbit"
  * "spin = noncollinear"
  * "out_magnetization_step"

* New options for calculation of dielectric function and conductivity based on transition moments at the end of the GS calculation is added. The related input variables are

  * "yn_out_gs_sgm_eps"
  * "out_gs_sgm_eps_mu_nu"
  * "out_gs_sgm_eps_width"


(v.2.0.2)

* The definition of the total energy of the periodic system printed in TDDFT calculation has changed: 
  The electric field energy is included until v.2.0.1. It has not been included from v.2.0.2. 
* The directory names generated by "method_wf_distributor=slice" option have changed from v.2.0.2.
